docs/guide/strict-mode.md, before:

# Strict Mode

nim-typestates uses strict defaults to catch bugs early.

## Default Behavior

By default, typestates have:

- `strictTransitions = true` - All procs with state params must be marked
- `isSealed = true` - External modules cannot add transitions

## strictTransitions

When enabled, any proc with a state type as its first parameter MUST have either:

- `{.transition.}` - for state-changing operations
- `{.notATransition.}` - for read-only operations

```nim
typestate File:
  states Closed, Open
  transitions:
    Closed -> Open

proc open(f: Closed): Open {.transition.} = ...     # OK
proc read(f: Open): string {.notATransition.} = ... # OK
proc helper(f: Open): int = ...                     # ERROR!
```

### Opting Out

```nim
typestate LegacyFile:
  strictTransitions = false
  states Closed, Open
  ...
```

## isSealed

When enabled:

1. Other modules cannot extend the typestate
2. Other modules cannot define `{.transition.}` procs
3. Other modules MUST use `{.notATransition.}` for any state operations

```nim
# library.nim
typestate Payment:
  # isSealed = true (default)
  states Created, Captured

# user_code.nim
import library

proc check(p: Created): bool {.notATransition.} = ...  # OK
proc hack(p: Created): Captured {.transition.} = ...   # ERROR!
```

### Opting Out

```nim
typestate ExtensiblePayment:
  isSealed = false
  ...
```

Commit message:

feat: auto-generate branch types for branching transitions
BREAKING CHANGE: Remove typestate extension (isSealed flag)

Branch Types:
- For `Created -> Approved | Declined`, generates:
  - `CreatedBranchKind` enum (cbApproved, cbDeclined)
  - `CreatedBranch` variant object
  - `toCreatedBranch()` constructor procs
- Transition procs return branch type, not union
- Pattern match on `result.kind` to handle outcomes

Simplifications:
- Remove `isSealed` flag - typestates can only be defined once
- Remove typestate extension across modules
- Bridges remain for cross-typestate transitions

Tests:
- Add tbranch_types.nim for branch type generation
- Add tbridges_cross_module.nim for cross-module bridges
- Remove extension-related tests
- Update 30+ test files to remove isSealed = false

Docs:
- Update dsl-reference.md with branch type documentation
- Update error-handling.md with branch type patterns
- Update strict-mode.md to remove isSealed section

docs/guide/strict-mode.md, after:

# Strict Mode

nim-typestates uses strict defaults to catch bugs early.

## Default Behavior

By default, typestates have:

- `strictTransitions = true` - All procs with state params must be marked

## strictTransitions

When enabled, any proc with a state type as its first parameter MUST have either:

- `{.transition.}` - for state-changing operations
- `{.notATransition.}` - for read-only operations

```nim
typestate File:
  states Closed, Open
  transitions:
    Closed -> Open

proc open(f: Closed): Open {.transition.} = ...     # OK
proc read(f: Open): string {.notATransition.} = ... # OK
proc helper(f: Open): int = ...                     # ERROR!
```

### Opting Out

```nim
typestate LegacyFile:
  strictTransitions = false
  states Closed, Open
  ...
```

## Module Boundaries

Typestates can only be defined once, in a single module. All states and transitions
must be declared together:

```nim
# library.nim
typestate Payment:
  states Created, Captured
  transitions:
    Created -> Captured

# user_code.nim
import library

proc check(p: Created): bool {.notATransition.} = ...  # OK - read-only
proc hack(p: Created): Captured {.transition.} = ...   # ERROR - can't add transitions from external module
```

This ensures the typestate's behavior is fully defined where it's declared,
preventing accidental or malicious modification from other modules.
